<?xml version="1.0"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Strict//EN"
          "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-strict.dtd" >
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/xhtml" />
  <title>Erubis</title>
  <meta name="generator" content="kwaser" />
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="docstyle.css" type="text/css" />
  <meta http-equiv="Content-Style-Type" content="text/css" />
 </head>
 <body>

  <div id="mainbody">

    <!-- BeginEditable "breadcrumbs" -->
    <a href="/">HOME</a>
 &gt; Erubis<br />
    <!-- EndEditable "breadcrumbs" -->

   <!-- BeginEditable "doc_content" -->
   <div id="doc_content">
    <h1 id="doc_title">Erubis</h1>
<a name="News"></a>
<h2 class="section">News</h2>
<ul class="ul1">
<li>[2006-05-??] <a href="download.cgi">erubis_2.0.0</a> released.
</li>
<li>[2006-03-05] <a href="download.cgi">erubis_1.1.0</a> released.
</li>
</ul>



<a name="Introduction"></a>
<h2 class="section">Introduction</h2>
<p>Erubis is a pure Ruby implementation of eRuby.
It has the following features.
</p>
<ul class="ul1">
<li>Very fast, almost three times faster than ERB and even as fast as eruby (implemented in C)
</li>
<li>Auto escaping (sanitizing) support
</li>
<li>Auto trimming spaces around '&lt;% %&gt;'
</li>
<li>Embedded pattern changeable (default '&lt;% %&gt;')
</li>
<li>Multi-language support (Ruby/PHP/C/Java/Scheme/Perl/Javascript)
</li>
<li>Context object available and easy to combine eRuby template with YAML datafile
</li>
<li>Easy to expand in subclass, for example:
  <ul class="ul2">
  <li>Print statement support
  </li>
  <li>Lines starting with percent character ('%') support
  </li>
  <li>Another embedded pattern support
  </li>
  <li>etc...
  </li>
  </ul>
</li>
</ul>
<p>eRuby is "embedded Ruby" in documents.
The following is an example of eRuby. '&lt;% ... %&gt;' means Ruby statement and '&lt;%= ... %&gt;' means Ruby expression.
</p>
<a name="example.eruby"></a>
<div class="program_caption">example.eruby</div>
<pre class="program">Hello &lt;%= @user %&gt;!
&lt;% for item in @list %&gt;
 * &lt;%= item %&gt;
&lt;% end %&gt;
</pre>
<p>This will be compiled into Ruby program code.
</p>
<pre class="terminal">$ erubis -x example.eruby
_buf = []; _buf &lt;&lt; 'Hello '; _buf &lt;&lt; ( @user ).to_s; _buf &lt;&lt; '!
'; for item in @list 
 _buf &lt;&lt; ' * '; _buf &lt;&lt; ( item ).to_s; _buf &lt;&lt; '
'; end 
_buf.join
</pre>
<p>Or you can execute eRuby script directry.
</p>
<pre class="terminal">$ cat data.yaml
user: Erubis
list:
  - aaa
  - bbb
  - ccc
$ erubis -f data.yaml example.eruby
Hello Erubis!
 * aaa
 * bbb
 * ccc
</pre>
<p>Erubis supports not only Ruby but also PHP, C, Java, Scheme, Perl, and Javascript.
You can embed these language code into your document and compile it into target program code.
</p>



<a name="Download"></a>
<h2 class="section">Download</h2>
	<ul class="ul1">
	<li>if you have installed RubyGems, just type `<code>gem install --remote erubis</code>' to install Erubis
	</li>
	<li>Or download from <a href="http://rubyforge.org/projects/erubis/">RubyForge</a>
	</li>
	</ul>



<a name="Documents"></a>
<h2 class="section">Documents</h2>
	<ul class="ul1">
	<li><a href="users-guide.html">Users' guide</a>
	</li>
	<li><a href="ChangeLog.txt">Changelog</a>
	</li>
	</ul>



<a name="License"></a>
<h2 class="section">License</h2>
	<ul class="ul1">
	<li><a href="http://www.gnu.org/copyleft/gpl.html">GNU General Public License ver.2</a>
<p>	   If you need looser license, please contact me.
</p>
	</li>
	</ul>




   </div>
   <!-- EndEditable "doc_content" -->
  </div>

 </body>
</html>
